---
layout: posts
title:  "Arend 1.2.0 released"
---

We implemented a few features related to classes and pattern matching.
One of these features is pattern matching on {%ard%} idp : a = a {%endard%}, which can be used instead of the J operator.

Language updates:
* Implemented pattern matching on [idp](/documentation/language-reference/prelude#idp).
  This feature can be used instead of the J operator to define functions on path types.
  This is a standard feature in other proof assistants, but was missing from Arend since it has a different definition of path types.
* New keyword [\noclassifying](/documentation/language-reference/definitions/classes#classifying-fields) can be used to define classes without classifying fields.
  Such classes are similar to Agda's modules and Coq's sections.
* The type of a field can be overridden with a subtype in a subclass using new keyword [\override](/documentation/language-reference/definitions/records#override).
* Variables can be [eliminated](/documentation/language-reference/expressions/case#elim-in-case) in {%ard%} \case {%endard%} expressions now.
* Implemented [constructor synonyms](/documentation/language-reference/definitions/data#constructor-synonyms).
* It is possible now to implement fields using [pattern matching](/documentation/language-reference/definitions/functions#patterns-in-coclauses).
* We decided to make [\Prop](/documentation/language-reference/expressions/universes) proof relevant in general (but it is still proof irrelevant in some cases).
  The implementation in 1.1.0 was incorrect and it turns out that it is [impossible](https://arxiv.org/abs/1911.08174v1) to implement it without loss of the normalization property.
* Now, fields and implementations in a class are typechecked in the order they are specified (before now implementations were typechecked after fields).

Plugin updates:
* Fixed some problems with pattern generator and implemented case split for \Sigma-types and records.
* It is possible now to adjust the verbosity of pretty printer in error messages.
