---
layout: posts
title:  "Arend 1.4.0 released"
---

Language updates:
* [Implicit lambdas](/documentation/language-reference/expressions/pi#implicit-lambdas).
* [Tests directory](/documentation/libraries) can be used to store files with tests, examples, and other code which is not a part of the library.
* Improved pretty printer: if some definition is not available in the current context, it will be replaced with its full name.
* REPL. To run it, use `-i` flag.
* Arend now supports unicode symbols through [aliases](/documentation/language-reference/definitions#aliases).
* Equality between disjoint constructors is now considered empty.
* Added support for incomplete lambdas, let expressions, and tuples. Missing expressions are treated as goals.
* Implemented tail call optimization.

Plugin updates:
* Highlighting and resolving of expressions in error messages.
* [Fill goal and refine](/about/intellij-features#goals) intentions can be invoked on goals. The latter is implemented through language extensions.
* REPL can be invoked from the main menu: **Tools \| Show Arend REPL**.
* [Aliases support](/about/intellij-features#aliases).
* Improved goto next/previous error. By default, these actions can be invoked by shortcuts **Alt+F2** and **Alt+Shift+F2**.
* To debug meta definitions, you need to specify a path to Arend jar file in the settings on page **Language & Frameworks \| Arend**.
To run the debugger, click on the gutter icon near some Arend definition and choose "Debug 'Typecheck ...'".
* Improved [documentation support](/about/intellij-features#quick-documentation).

API:
+ Goal solvers can be used to replace goals with expressions.
+ Arend UI allows meta definitions to interact with the user.
+ Level solvers can be used to automatically prove that a type belongs to a certain homotopy level.
+ Number type-checker can be used to elaborate numerical literals to arbitrary expressions.
+ User data in definitions can be used to store arbitrary user data.
+ User data in ContextData can be used to pass information between meta definitions.
