---
layout: posts
title:  "Arend 1.11.0 released"
---

This release focuses primarily on internal enhancements aimed at improving overall stability.

Language updates:

* Introduce Arend server that store the state of the type-checker.
* Improved interaction between Java and Arend code.
  Previously, changes in Arend code that affected meta definitions required reloading the plugin; now they are picked up on the fly.
* Improved termination checking algorithm.
* Expressions before the dot are no longer restricted to variables.
  While previously e.f was allowed only when e was a variable, it can now be any expression.

Plugin updates:

* Arend server state tree view that displays the state of definitions stored on Arend server.
* Visualization of call matrices that can be used to debug termination problems.

arend-lib:

* Refactor the hierarchy of spaces, introducing extended (lower) metric spaces, normed Abelian groups, normed rings, Banach spaces, and Banach algebras
* Boolean algebras and Boolean rings
* New algebraic solvers (including a solver for Boolean rings)
* Real commutative C*-algebras
* Riesz spaces
* The Riesz space of simple functions on a Boolean ring
* Supremum and infimum of a set of real numbers
* Intermediate value theorem for monotone functions
* The root function for real numbers
* Closed and bounded subsets of Euclidean spaces are compact
* Differentiability of linear and bilinear functions, the chain rule
* Schur's lemma
* Trace of a matrix
* Free groups
* The simplex category
* Eckmann-Hilton argument
* Euler totient function
